[MUSIC]
>> Douglas: That's where
the stuff came from and
because the beginners were writing
in HyperCard we know it's easy for
beginners to use event based systems and
to do asynchronous programming.
JavaScript is now moving to the server
after having conquered the browser it's
now moving to the server and
it's conquering there too,
which is great because it means all
of the skill that we've developed and
doing stuff on the browser side we can now
bring those skills back to the server side
it means you only need to be really
competent in one language and
that can help save some time.
Unfortunately what servers do is quite
different than what browsers do.
In fact it's so different that you need
a fairly different programming model.
We're doing server stuff now in node.
Node implements a web server
in a JavaScript event loop.
It's just a high performance event pump.
It's very efficient, very fast,
can do a tremendous amount of work.
It does File I/O correctly for
the first time.
Going all the way back to Fortran and
COBOL, File I/O has always been blocking,
and in node we finally get
non blocking File I/O.
We do it asynchronously so
when you wanna read a file,
you pass in a filename and a callback
function, and when the file is read,
it'll call your callback function and
you get the data, and it's great.
And so the programs don't block on
doing File I/O because blocking would
violate the law of turns and
we'd never violate the law of turns.
We note everything is or
can be should be non blocking.
Unfortunately, like everything that
has anything to do with JavaScript,
node doesn't get everything right.
A couple of things that I'm
really unhappy about with node,
is that node has a number of synchronous
functions baked into the API.
And these synchronous
functions block everything.
And so you go from having a very
fast high performance system
to a very slow low performance system
instantly because you're blocking.
Nothing else gets to happen until
the synchronous calls are done.
I would like to outlaw those
synchronous functions.
Unfortunately, what we've seen
in the JavaScript community
is if you put something really stupid into
an API, there are web developers that say,
I have a right to use it and there
are these synchronous functions in node
which should never be used but because
they're in node there are people using
them and they violate the law of turns.
Then I don't like the requires
thing because it is also blocking.
The very first version of it
on node was asynchronous,
which is the correct way to do it and
there were complaints that it's too hard,
it's inside out and
we only start things up in the morning
when we turn the servers on and so once
they get warmed up then it doesn't matter.
That's not true and then we're bringing
servers up and down all the time.
Anything which blocks is a bad thing.
Fortunately in ES 6 we're getting a new
module system which obsoletes that, so
that will be better.
But what we're doing, servers
are significantly different than browsers.
In a server we're not dealing with
events we're dealing with messages.
Now message comes in from the network.
We'll do something,
we'll send another message out.
It's all about messaging.
A node server is actor like and that
it's a thing which receives messages and
sends messages but
the simple events model that we
use on the browser doesn't really fit
the workflows that we do on a server.
For example, we may have things which
take several sequential steps like
a request comes in, we take that request,
we have to send something to a database,
get something back,
we can take that information,
we use that to go to another database and
get stuff back.
Each of these things depends
on the previous thing.
How do you do that?
If you don't know how to do it,
the naive approach is to write
deeply nested event handlers.
In the event handler of one thing,
you make a request of the next service and
in it's event handler you make the request
of the next one that leads to code which
is extremely brittle, extremely
hard to maintain, low performance,
it's all bad stuff.
Then we have the opportunity
to do things in parallel.
It might be a request comes in and we can
go to several systems at the same time
because the requests are not dependent on
each other so they're independent requests
and by going in parallel,
we get to change the performance of
the thing significantly because instead of
waiting for each to finish sequentially,
instead of taking that much time,
we only have to wait for
the slowest of those things,
which is usually a much shorter time.
We can significantly improve
our response processing.
Unfortunately, each of
these requests maybe coming
back at unexpected times and an unexpected
orders and how do you deal with that?
How do you and some might not come back
at all and how do you deal with that?
And so that's hard.
If you don't know how to manage that
naive thing is to not do it in parallel.
Instead, do it sequentially with deeply
nested event handlers, which is, again,
quite awful.
Then in addition to that,
you may have to deal with limited time.
You may have SLAs or other policies which
say we have to get a response within so
many milliseconds and if we don't,
we have to go to plan B.
We can't just keep the request hanging for
some amount of time.
And then we have to
deal with cancellation.
If we go to plan B, we want to stop all
of the work which is no longer necessary.
How do you do all of those things
in deeply nested event handlers?